# Learn-SQL-by-Building-a-Student-Database

This is project is part of Relational Database Certification course by FreeCodeCamp(https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/relational-database/learn-sql-by-building-a-student-database-part-1/build-a-student-database-part-1). It's a 2 part project which teaches you crucial skills of Bash shell scripting language and SQL.

In the first part of the project it teaches you how to create a Postgresql database and connect to it from Command line interface using Bash. This is a great way to work as it doesn't requires any sophesticated softwares to work on SQL. Then the tutorial teaches you to how to create multiple tables with relations between them using foreign key. And then it teaches you to write a Bash script to autimatically insert data in the SQL database tables. Also it shows you various advanced logical functions to ensure the inserted data are accurate. At the end it teaches a method to convert all the SQL query written in the command line into a .sql file.

In the second part, this tutorial focuses on SQL mainly. It starts where the first part of the tutorial ended. You would have a .sql file containing the whole database created in the first chapter. This tutorial uses that database to teach various SQL queries. It also uses Bash like before to connect to the database. This tutorial teaches you SQL Operators and Clauses like Where, Distinct, Group By, Like etc. It also focuses heavily on Joins. You will have efficient skills on Joins after properly completing this course.

Personally I like FreeCodeCamp a lot. This is one of the best free platform to learn IT skills and Porgramming. There high quality and interactive tutorials makes the learning fun and enjoyable. I'm really gratefull to the FreeCodeCamp for their compassionate efforts to teach programming.
